feat(curriculum): Add fetch challenge to the current curriculum. (#36033)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/04-data-visualization/json-apis-and-ajax/get-json-with-the-javascript-fetch-method.md

---
id: 5ccfad82bb2dc6c965a848e5
title: Get JSON with the JavaScript fetch() method.
challengeType: 6
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Another way to request external data is to use the JavaScript <code>fetch()</code>  method. It is equivalent to XMLHttpRequest, but the syntax is considered easier to understand.
Here is the code for making a GET request to <code>/json/dogs.json</code>

> <blockquote>	

Reviewer: @thecodingaviator Yes, these can now be change to using the triple backtick syntax.  Someone is working on adding it to the docs.

---
id: 5ccfad82bb2dc6c965a848e5

> title: Get JSON with the JavaScript fetch() method.

Reviewer 2: hey @leodaher - thanks for making the changes - you accidentally left the period in the title I think. Can you remove that please?

> title: Get JSON with the JavaScript fetch() method.

Author: @moT01 Done!

challengeType: 6
---

## Description
<section id='description'>
Another way to request external data is to use the JavaScript <code>fetch()</code>  method. It is equivalent to XMLHttpRequest, but the syntax is considered easier to understand.
Here is the code for making a GET request to <code>/json/cats.json</code>

```js

fetch('/json/cats.json')
	.then(response => response.json())
	.then(data => {

> 		document.getElementById('message').innerHTML=JSON.stringify(data);

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		document.getElementById('message').innerHTML = JSON.stringify(data);
```

	})

```

> Let's analyze each piece of this code. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Take a look at each piece of this code. 
```
The space is because we're in the process of adding a linter (and this would fail).  The rewording is to conform with the [style guide](https://github.com/freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp/blob/master/docs/style-guide-for-curriculum-challenges.md#writing-instructions): 
> Challenge text should use the second person ("you") to help to give it a conversational tone. This way, the text and instructions seem to speak directly to the camper working through the challenge. Try to avoid using the first person ("I", "we", "let's", and "us").

The first line is the one that makes the request. So, <code>fetch(URL)</code> makes a GET request to the URL specified. The method returns a Promise.

After a Promise is returned, if the request was successful, the <code>then</code> method is executed, which takes the response and converts it to JSON format.

The <code>then</code> method also returns a Promise, which is handled by the next <code>then</code> method. The argument in the second <code>then</code> is the JSON object you are looking for! 

> Now, you select the element you want to insert the data in by using <code>document.getElementById()</code>. Then you modify the HTML code of the element by inserting a string created from the JSON object returned from the request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, it selects the element that will receive the data by using <code>document.getElementById()</code>. Then it modifies the HTML code of the element by inserting a string created from the JSON object returned from the request.
```
I found the original sentence a bit confusing.  Also, it seemed better to stick with the idea that the code is doing the things, not you.

</section>

## Instructions
<section id='instructions'>
Update the code to create and send a "GET" request to the freeCodeCamp Cat Photo API. But this time, using the <code>fetch</code> method instead of <code>XMLHttpRequest</code>.
</section>

## Tests
<section id='tests'>

```yml
tests:
  - text: Your code should make a GET request with <code>fetch</code>.

>     testString: assert(code.match(/fetch\(\s*?('|")\/json\/cats\.json('|")\s*?\)/g));

Author: Good to know about the "\1" regex! Very useful!

  - text: Your code should use <code>then</code> to convert the response to JSON.

>     testString: assert(code.match(/\.then\(.*\=\>.*\.json\(\s*\)\s*\)/g))

Author: I modified the way you asked, but also added optional space characters before "response".

  - text: Your code should use <code>then</code> to handle the data converted to JSON by the other <code>then</code>.

>     testString: assert(code.match(/\.then\(.*\=\>\s*\{.*\}\s*\)/gs))

Author: Does this allow line breaks? I had added the "s" character at the end for this.

  - text: Your code should get the element with id <code>message</code> and change its inner HTML to the string of JSON data.

>     testString: assert(code.match(/document\s*\.getElementById\(\s*?('|")message\1\s*?\)\s*\.innerHTML\s*?=\s*?JSON\.stringify\(.+?\)/gs));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    testString: assert(code.match(/document\s*\.getElementById\s*\(\s*('|")message\1\s*\)\s*\.innerHTML\s*=\s*JSON\s*\.\s*stringify\s*\(\s*data\s*\)/g));
```

  }
</style>
<h1>Cat Photo Finder</h1>
<p id="message">
  The message will go here
</p>
<p>
  <button id="getMessage">
    Get Message
  </button>
</p>
```

</div>

</section>

## Solution
<section id='solution'>

```html
<script>
  document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded',function(){
    document.getElementById('getMessage').onclick= () => {
      fetch('/json/cats.json')
        .then(response => response.json())
        .then(data => {
          document.getElementById('message').innerHTML=JSON.stringify(data);
        })
    };
  });
</script>
<style>
  body {
    text-align: center;
    font-family: "Helvetica", sans-serif;
  }
  h1 {
    font-size: 2em;
    font-weight: bold;
  }
  .box {
    border-radius: 5px;
    background-color: #eee;
    padding: 20px 5px;
  }
  button {
    color: white;
    background-color: #4791d0;
    border-radius: 5px;
    border: 1px solid #4791d0;
    padding: 5px 10px 8px 10px;
  }
  button:hover {
    background-color: #0F5897;
    border: 1px solid #0F5897;
  }
</style>
<h1>Cat Photo Finder</h1>
<p id="message">
  The message will go here
</p>
<p>
  <button id="getMessage">
    Get Message
  </button>
</p>
```

> </section>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

</section>
```
Preparing for the linter again.
